title: Low blood pressure (hypotension)
shortDescription: "Low blood pressure might seem desirable, and for some people, it causes no problems."
fullText: "Low blood pressure might seem desirable, and for some people, it causes no problems. However, for many people, abnormally low blood pressure (hypotension) can cause dizziness and fainting. In severe cases, low blood pressure can be life-threatening. A blood pressure reading lower than 90 millimeters of mercury (mm Hg) for the top number (systolic) or 60 mm Hg for the bottom number (diastolic) is generally considered low blood pressure. The causes of low blood pressure can range from
dehydration to serious medical or surgical disorders. It's important to find out what's causing your low blood pressure so that it can be treated. For some people, low blood pressure signals an underlying problem, especially when it drops suddenly or is accompanied by signs and symptoms such as: Dizziness or lightheadedness, Fainting (syncope), Blurred vision, Nausea, Fatigue, Lack of concentration, Shock. Extreme hypotension can result in this life-threatening condition. Signs and symptoms include:, Confusion, especially in older people, Cold, clammy, pale skin, Rapid, shallow breathing, Weak and rapid pulse. When to see a doctor: If you have indications of shock, seek emergency medical help. If you have consistently low blood pressure readings but feel fine, your doctor is likely just to monitor you during routine exams. Even occasional dizziness or lightheadedness may be a relatively minor problem — the result of mild dehydration from too much time in the sun or a hot tub, for example. Still, it's important to see your doctor if you have signs or symptoms of hypotension because they can point to more-serious problems. It can be helpful to keep a record of your symptoms, when they occur and what you're doing at the time. Blood pressure is a measurement of the pressure in your arteries during the active and resting phases of each heartbeat. The top number in a blood pressure reading is the amount of pressure your heart generates when pumping blood through your arteries to the rest of your body. The bottom number in a blood pressure reading refers to the amount of pressure in your arteries when your heart is at rest between beats. Current guidelines identify normal blood pressure as lower than 120/80 mm Hg. Throughout the day, blood pressure varies, depending on body position, breathing rhythm, stress level, physical condition, medications you take, what you eat and drink, and time of day. Blood pressure is usually lowest at night and rises sharply on waking."

title: "Menopause and high blood pressure: What's the connection?"
shortDescription: "Blood pressure generally increases after menopause. Some doctors think this increase suggests that hormonal shifts related to menopause may contribute to high blood pressure"
fullText: "Blood pressure generally increases after menopause. Some doctors think this increase suggests that hormonal shifts related to menopause may contribute to high blood pressure. Others think an increase in body mass index (BMI) in menopausal women may play a greater role than hormonal changes. Menopause-related hormonal changes can lead to weight gain and make your blood pressure more reactive to salt in your diet — which, in turn, can lead to higher blood pressure. Some types of hormone therapy (HT) for menopause also may contribute to increases in blood pressure. To control your blood pressure both before and after menopause, focus on a healthy lifestyle:
Maintain a healthy weight.
Eat heart-healthy foods, such as whole grains, fruits and vegetables.
Reduce the amount of processed foods and salt in your diet.
Exercise most days of the week.
Manage stress.
Limit or avoid alcohol.
If you smoke, stop.
If necessary, your doctor may prescribe medications to help lower your blood pressure."

title: "Anxiety: A cause of high blood pressure?"
shortDescription: "Anxiety doesn't cause long-term high blood pressure (hypertension)."
fullText: "Anxiety doesn't cause long-term high blood pressure (hypertension). But episodes of anxiety can cause dramatic, temporary spikes in your blood pressure. If those temporary spikes occur frequently, such as every day, they can cause damage to your blood vessels, heart and kidneys, as can chronic high blood pressure. In addition, when you have anxiety you're more likely to resort to other unhealthy habits that can increase your blood pressure, such as: Smoking, Drinking alcoholic
beverages, Overeating. Some medications to treat anxiety and other mental health conditions, such as serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), can also increase your blood pressure.If you have trouble controlling your anxiety or if anxiety interferes with daily activities, talk to your doctor or a mental health provider to find an appropriate treatment."

title: "Can whole-grain foods lower blood pressure?"
shortDescription: "It might. Eating more whole-grain foods on a regular basis might help reduce your chance of developing high blood pressure (hypertension)."
fullText: "It might. Eating more whole-grain foods on a regular basis might help reduce your chance of developing high blood pressure (hypertension).Whole grains are grains that include the entire grain kernel — they haven't had their bran and germ removed by refining. Whole-grain foods are a rich source of healthy nutrients, including fiber, potassium, magnesium, folate, iron and selenium. Eating more whole-grain foods offers many health benefits that can work together to help reduce your risk
of high blood pressure by: Aiding in weight control, since whole-grain foods can make you feel full longer, Increasing your intake of potassium, which is linked to lower blood pressure, Decreasing your risk of insulin resistance, Reducing damage to your blood vessels, If you already have high blood pressure, eating more whole-grain foods might help lower your blood pressure. The Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH) diet and the Mediterranean diet both recommend including whole grains as part of a healthy diet. According to the Dietary Guidelines for Americans, as part of an overall healthy diet, adults should eat at least 85 grams of whole-grain foods a day — that's about 3 ounces, or the equivalent of three slices of whole-wheat bread."

title: "Blood pressure cuff: Does size matter?"
shortDescription: "Using a blood pressure cuff that's too large or too small can give you inaccurate blood pressure readings."
fullText: "Using a blood pressure cuff that's too large or too small can give you inaccurate blood pressure readings. Your doctor's office should have several sizes of cuffs to ensure an accurate blood pressure reading. Also, when you measure your blood pressure at home, it's important to use the proper size cuff. Having a properly fitting cuff is important because poorly fitting cuffs won't give accurate blood pressure measurements. If you're concerned about the size of your cuff or your blood pressure readings, talk to your doctor. He or she may check your blood pressure several times with the same, appropriately sized, cuff in the same arm. Averaging multiple readings taken during the same visit should give your "true" blood pressure at that point in time."

title: "Free blood pressure machines: Are they accurate?"
shortDescription: "Public blood pressure machines, such as those found in pharmacies, may provide helpful information about your blood pressure, but they may have some limitations."
fullText: "Public blood pressure machines, such as those found in pharmacies, may provide helpful information about your blood pressure, but they may have some limitations. The accuracy of these machines depends on several factors, such as a correct cuff size and proper use of the machines. Ask your doctor for advice on using public blood pressure machines. The blood pressure cuffs on some public blood pressure machines may be too small or too large to get an accurate reading on some people with high blood pressure. Having a properly fitting cuff is important because poorly fitting cuffs won't give accurate blood pressure measurements. It's best to have your blood pressure checked in a medical facility or in a community screening program with trained staff. Before diagnosing or treating high blood pressure, you'll need to have your blood pressure measured by a known, accurate instrument in your doctor's office on several separate visits. If you need to check your blood pressure more frequently, your doctor can instruct you on the best way to monitor your blood pressure at home. Home blood pressure monitoring can be an inexpensive way to get regular blood pressure readings. Home blood pressure monitoring isn't a substitute for visits to your doctor, and home blood pressure monitors may have some limitations. Even if you get normal readings, don't stop or change your medications or alter your diet without talking to your doctor first."

